[RayService] Stable Diffusion example (#1181)
ray-project/kuberay: docs/guidance/stable-diffusion-rayservice.md

# Serve a StableDiffusion text-to-image model using RayService

> **Note:** The Python files for the Ray Serve application and its client are in the [ray-project/serve_config_examples](https://github.com/ray-project/serve_config_examples) repo 
and [the Ray documentation](https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/serve/tutorials/stable-diffusion.html).

## Step 1: Create a Kubernetes cluster with GPUs

> You can follow [aws-eks-gpu-cluster.md](./aws-eks-gpu-cluster.md) to create an AWS EKS cluster with 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow [aws-eks-gpu-cluster.md](./aws-eks-gpu-cluster.md) to create an AWS EKS cluster with 1
```

> CPU (`m5.xlarge`) and 1 GPU (`g5.xlarge`) nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CPU (`m5.xlarge`) and 1 GPU (`g5.xlarge`) node.
```

Author: Update to "1 CPU node and 1 GPU node".

> ## Step 2: Install KubeRay operator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 2: Install the nightly KubeRay operator
```

> Follow [this document](../../helm-chart/kuberay-operator/README.md) to install the nightly KubeRay operator via 

Reviewer: (I assume that this is the bolding syntax).

```suggestion
Follow [this document](../../helm-chart/kuberay-operator/README.md) to install the *nightly* KubeRay operator via 
```

> Helm. Note that the YAML file in Step 3 uses `serveConfigV2`, which is first supported by KubeRay v0.6.0.

Reviewer: Can you move the "Note that the YAML..." sentence to Step 3 instead of keeping it here? Generally, I'd recommend keeping the notes in the same Steps that they're referring to. It's a bit hard to keep track of them all right now.

Author: I added this sentence to explain why I am asking users to install the nightly build instead of the latest stable release (v0.5.0). If we move this to Step 3, users might have already installed the wrong version of KubeRay. This sentence will be removed once v0.6.0 is released. Does it make sense to you?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Helm. We're installing the nightly since the this example's YAML file uses `serveConfigV2`, which uses features that will be released in KubeRay v0.6.0.
```

## Step 3: Install a RayService

```sh
# path: ray-operator/config/samples/
kubectl apply -f ray-service.stable-diffusion.yaml
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This YAML file contains some important settings:
```

> This YAML file contains some important settings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This RayService configuration contains some important settings:

```

> * The `tolerations` for workers must match the taints on the GPU node group. Without the tolerations, worker Pods won't be scheduled on GPU nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Its `tolerations` for workers match the taints on the GPU node group. Without the tolerations, worker Pods won't be scheduled on GPU nodes.
```

    ```yaml
    # Please add the following taints to the GPU node.
    tolerations:
        - key: "ray.io/node-type"
        operator: "Equal"
        value: "worker"
        effect: "NoSchedule"
    ```

> * Install `diffusers` in `runtime_env` as it is not included by default in the `ray-ml` image.

Reviewer: Can you add a code snippet for this recommendation, so users can copy and paste it?

Author: Users do not need to install `diffusers` themselves. The YAML file has already configured the runtime_env.

<img width="971" alt="Screen Shot 2023-06-22 at 9 26 38 PM" src="https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/assets/20109646/6e19ebec-719f-4f95-9f3a-18b45a5b2cc5">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It includes `diffusers` in `runtime_env` since this package is not included by default in the `ray-ml` image.
```

## Step 4: Forward the port of Serve

```sh
kubectl port-forward svc/stable-diffusion-serve-svc 8000
```

> Note that the Serve service will be created after the Serve applications are ready and running. This process may take approximately 1 minute after all Pods in the RayCluster are running.

Reviewer: Is it the Kubernetes service that's created after the Serve apps are ready?
```suggestion
Note that the RayService's Kubernetes service will be created after the Serve applications are ready and running. This process may take approximately 1 minute after all Pods in the RayCluster are running.
```

Author: > Is it the Kubernetes service that's created after the Serve apps are ready? 

Yes.

## Step 5: Send a request to the text-to-image model

```sh
# Step 5.1: Download `stable_diffusion_req.py` 
curl -LO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/serve_config_examples/master/stable_diffusion/stable_diffusion_req.py

> # Step 5.2: Update `prompt` in `stable_diffusion_req.py`.

Reviewer: Could you show an example code snippet of an updated prompt here?

Author: https://github.com/ray-project/serve_config_examples/blob/master/stable_diffusion/stable_diffusion_req.py This is very straightforward for me, and we have already added `# TODO: Set your prompt here` in the Python script. Do we still need to add a code snippet?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Step 5.2: Set your `prompt` in `stable_diffusion_req.py`.
```

# Serve a StableDiffusion text-to-image model using RayService

> > **Note:** The Python files for the Ray Serve application and its client are in [ray-project/serve_config_examples](https://github.com/ray-project/serve_config_examples) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The Python files for the Ray Serve application and its client are in the [ray-project/serve_config_examples](https://github.com/ray-project/serve_config_examples) repo 
```

and [the Ray documentation](https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/serve/tutorials/stable-diffusion.html).

## Step 1: Create a Kubernetes cluster with GPUs

You can follow [aws-eks-gpu-cluster.md](./aws-eks-gpu-cluster.md) to create an AWS EKS cluster with GPUs.

> Here is my configuration for the CPU node group and GPU node group:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this example, a working for the CPU node group and GPU node group is:
```

Author: "a working" or "a working configuration"?

Reviewer: Ah sorry, "a working configuration".

Author: https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/pull/1181/commits/4d018b2fb5561bffb45c83eb0bcf6b7c9d1db9f5

* CPU node group
  * Instance type: [**m5.xlarge**](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/m5/) (4 vCPU; 16 GB RAM)
  * Disk size: 256 GB
  * Desired size: 1, Min size: 0, Max size: 1

* GPU node group
  * Add a Kubernetes taint to prevent CPU Pods from being scheduled on this GPU node group
    * Key: ray.io/node-type, Value: worker, Effect: NoSchedule
  * AMI type: Bottlerocket NVIDIA (BOTTLEROCKET_x86_64_NVIDIA)
  * Instance type: [**g5.12xlarge**](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/g5/) (4 GPU; 96 GB GPU Memory; 48 vCPUs; 192 GB RAM)
  * Disk size: 1024 GB
  * Desired size: 1, Min size: 0, Max size: 1

## Step 2: Install KubeRay operator

Follow [this document](../../helm-chart/kuberay-operator/README.md) to install the nightly KubeRay operator via 
Helm. Note that the YAML file in Step 3 uses `serveConfigV2`, which is first supported by KubeRay v0.6.0.

## Step 3: Install a RayService

```sh
# path: ray-operator/config/samples/
kubectl apply -f ray-service.stable-diffusion.yaml
```

> * The `tolerations` for workers must match the taints on the GPU node group. Without the tolerations, worker Pods will not be able to be scheduled on the GPU nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `tolerations` for workers must match the taints on the GPU node group. Without the tolerations, worker Pods won't be scheduled on GPU nodes.
```

    ```yaml
    # Please add the following taints to the GPU node.
    tolerations:
        - key: "ray.io/node-type"
        operator: "Equal"
        value: "worker"
        effect: "NoSchedule"
    ```
* Install `diffusers` in `runtime_env` as it is not included by default in the `ray-ml` image.

## Step 4: Forward the port of Serve

```sh
kubectl port-forward svc/stable-diffusion-serve-svc 8000
```

Note that the Serve service will be created after the Serve applications are ready and running. This process may take approximately 1 minute after all Pods in the RayCluster are running.

## Step 5: Send a request to the text-to-image model

> 

Reviewer: Could you ask users to pull the repo in this step and navigate to the correct directory? It's a bit confusing where the Python files are coming from.

Author: https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/pull/1181/commits/56700059a02d9508f0f57e7a41d67bf3f22024c9
